[AUDIO LOGO]
>> Myths of insect-like beings
helping humanity during times
of cataclysms can be found
throughout the ancient world.
Often referred to as mantis
or mantids, insectoids or even
Ant People.
Their influence can
still be felt today.
Thousands of contactees
claiming to have
been aboard
extraterrestrial spacecrafts
recount mantis-looking
beings who
seem to have a
vested interest in
our evolutionary development.
If this is so, who
are these insectoids
that work in the shadows.
And what is their influence
upon humanity and our future?
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> We see representations
of insectoids throughout
Earth's history, particularly
with the Egyptian culture.
There was other depictions
of insectoid beings
in some of the Mayan cultures,
with some of the cultures
that we see out of Africa.
So I think they were at
times teachers to humanity.
And that's why these beings
are currently being depicted
throughout Earth's history.
There was depictions
of insectoid beings
even within the Native
American cultures, particularly
the ant people.
>> We know about the ant people
helping the Native American
people from the oral stories of
the Zuni and the Hopi people,
as well as from the petroglyphic
carvings that we find
in Northern Arizona showing
us depictions of these
insectoid-looking people
that are the Ant People.
Thousands of years
ago, Earth was
facing a very major
cataclysm that
was threatening to
destroy all of life
on the surface of the planet.
As this cataclysm
was getting underway,
the ant people came out from
under the surface of the Earth
and ushered humanity into
these underground caverns,
and cared for humanity while
the surface of the Earth
was just being devastated.
And there, they stayed
for generations.
After the cataclysm
had passed, humanity
was led back up to the
surface, and these ant people
were instrumental in
helping the humans learn
how to replant
foods, how to go back
into the agricultural
communities
so that they could
survive very well
on the surface of the planet.
>> The petroglyphs on the walls
where Ant People have been
described in the South, in
Mexico, and various areas,
those people referred
to, I believe,
were the small greys or the
medium-sized greys because they
had the long spindly arms,
the big heads, and so forth.
And so they got the
idea that the only thing
they could link them to or
talk about in a description
that they knew was the ants.
There is also the
possibility that some
of those that are
termed Ant People
could be from inner Earth.
There is definitely a group
of different alien species
on an inner Earth.
They kind of look
like Ant People,
like live in and out where
the poles have openings.
So there's the possibility
of both of those
being classified as Ant People.
>> According to one nature
photographer and art historian,
there is a cliff sculpture in
Colorado that commemorates when
the Ant People rescued Native
Americans from two separate
cataclysms thousands
of years ago.
While historical lore
describe ant or mantis-looking
beings inhabiting
inner Earth, what
do we know about their
Galactic origins?
>> Where do these
mantis beings come from?
That's still kind of a mystery.
We don't know if
they've got a home world
or if they're scattered
throughout the cosmos
and various home worlds.
There are reports
that they do have
some bases here in our solar
system, little planetoids
or even on Mars,
different locations.
>> We have only interacted
with the insectoids in a few
locations on ships and
on the surface of Mars.
You can assume that
they have places they
come from that are all over.
It eventually becomes
difficult for us
to say they come from a planet.
The ones that are
negatively oriented
are almost entirely
seen on ships.
And we don't really see them
running around some other place
having societies.
We don't see anything like that.
We see them doing jobs on ships.
That's it.
The ones that are
free, the good ones,
we see on the surface of
some planets, such as Mars.
>> The mantis beings are a
physicality type that is seen
in variations of forms
throughout our universe
and our galaxy.
My understanding
is they actually
originated from a
different universe,
but have settled
here in our universe.
They were the
beings that resided
in the star system of Antares.
They were considered to be the
gatekeepers of the Antarian
stargate.
There was a reason why they
had to oversee this stargate
because souls were allowed to
pass through from Andromeda
galaxy, but they
were not allowed
to leave the Milky Way galaxy.
Because once you
made that decision
to become part of the
Milky Way experience,
you had to make a commitment
to be here for a while.
>> So what's known from
contactees is that they come
from Orion, Andromeda, and
way far out into the galaxies
and beyond into
realms and worlds.
They are a matriarchal society,
where the females rule,
but everyone is still equal.
They are so advanced in
their consciousness moving up
the dimensions that they
even have these high temples
of learning and
spiral learning where
they can invite an individual
or a planetary consciousness
that's ready to move into
their next realm to ascend.
>> Mantis beings are referred
to as insectoids by humans.
But that is simply
a classification
we've created, limited by our
current knowledge of Earth
species.
According to
eyewitness accounts,
mantis beings take on a
wide range of appearances.
Perhaps the most striking
aspect of the mantis alien
is its physical kinship
with the praying mantis,
the carnivorous and bipedal
insect of its namesake.
>> A lot of what we got about
mantis beings comes to us from
eyewitness reports, people
who've seen them or various
other situations that
they've come across these
insectoid-looking beings.
They all describe the
same kind of thing
that they've got these elongated
arms, extended skinny torsos,
that they have some sort
of a shiny exoskeleton.
And a triangular
shaped head sometimes
with some proboscis poking out
from their heads, which really
gives us the
impression that these
look a lot like praying mantis.
And sometimes these reports
tell us that they have a cloak
around them, like either a dark
grey cloak or a blue cloak.
But they definitely have this
elongated insectoid appearance
about them.
>> Most of the descriptions
I've seen, it has a proboscis,
which is like what an insect
has is this sort of tongue
and projection of
its mouth cavity.
And it seems to fit
the perfect description
of what a praying
mantis should be,
even down to a point where
its hands are actually bent
and in that position.
>> The mantis beings
have three pronged hands.
So it's sort of like three
prongs that go down like this.
Their feet have sort of
a suction cup feeling.
So when they walk, they
can have a stability.
On their crafts, it is
said that everything is run
telepathically through them.
>> Insectoids as a whole mostly
follow the mantis appearance ,
but there's varying sizes.
There are some
that are very, very
large, like the
Antarian insectoids were
very large beings.
They were 15 to 20 feet tall.
There are others that were
the technicians that work with
the grey aliens.
Maybe some of the
insectoids that we
saw in Orion that were more
closer to human height.
And I think that's
just a variation where
depending on which star
systems or which locations
that they came from, it was just
a natural evolution of height.
There are different types
of insectoid beings.
I would say the mantis is
the most prominent one.
But there is also beetle
like-looking beings.
There's just variations
of insectoid beings,
just like there are variations
of insects on planet Earth.
>> Regarding different
alien ET races,
praying mantises are placed
in quataloids category within
the Defense Intelligence Agency.
They are genetically engineered.
And one particular type
looks like a praying mantis.
The larger praying mantis
is 5 or 6 foot tall.
And the second type
is more humanoid.
Now when we say
humanoid, we're not
talking about human-looking.
Thicker skin, a more
structured-looking head.
>> There's two basic types--
the hostile and the friendly.
The hostile are
essentially a slave race
to another group of
extraterrestrials
called the reptilians.
In terms of the hostile groups,
the reptilians are at the top.
And all groups below
that, they manipulate
in some way direct or indirect,
and they're essentially
all slaves of that
higher reptilian source.
The good mantis
beings are not slaves.
They are not controlled
by the reptilians.
And they have an
independent orientation.
>> Despite their daunting
outer appearance,
many researchers report that
encounters with mantis beings
have been for the
most part positive.
>> First of all, they're
totally sentient.
And almost everybody
else in the galaxy,
their communicative capabilities
are almost entirely telepathic.
So they don't use
a mouth like we
use to vibrate air to make
sounds that produce things.
And if you get a
good one and they're
interested in
communicating with you
and you're physically there,
they often put like pincers up
against her head, and they
bring themselves close
and they go into
your head that way.
And then they can go through
your head like a Rolodex.
And often when they
communicate with you,
they're trying to sort
out what kind of person
you are to have a
nice communication.
So if you're a hostile to them,
you may not fare too well.
But if you're friendly to them,
they'll have a conversation.
>> Mantis beings are the
most enigmatic beings of all
of them.
I have talked with
many researchers
just to see if we
could find anybody that
has had experiences with them.
Usually somebody would have
at least one experience
with a mantis being,
which was always positive.
>> I believe that the mantis are
very empathic, they are loving,
they are caring.
And that tends to be for the
most part what is experienced.
I believe that the
idea that the mantis
are confrontational or
negative or anything.
Most of the time, it
stems from the fact
that they look so scary.
They look so daunting.
And we immediately imply, Oh
my God, if you look like that,
you've got to be mean.
And that's not
necessarily the case.
>> A lot of the reports come
back that these beings have
a good sense of humor, that
there is a lighter disposition
to them.
They're a bit friendlier.
And they're kind of fun to
be around despite initially
being off put by their
scary appearance.
One of the stories we
have about interaction
comes to us from Pete
Peterson when he was working
in some of the secret programs.
He talked about interacting
with mantis type beings in some
of the underground military
bases and in the programs
that he works with.
One of the stories he
tells is when they were all
sitting around the eating
table at the mess hall,
and the mantis
beings were making
fun of the way humans were
eating, because to them the way
we eat is a little disgusting
and a little bit weird.
But he said that they were
cracking jokes all the time,
and that they were
having just a lot of fun.
They were just a joy to
be around the entire time.
>> For me, because I felt secure
with the people I was with,
then I felt secure.
So it wasn't a fright.
I didn't think the
thing was going
to turn around and eat me.
But I had wonderment.
It looked like it was an insect
that was all structured--
two feet, two legs, two
arms, two hands, two eyes,
and a nose, then a mouth,
mandible, chin and ears.
Didn't have long antennas, but
it had little balls on stubs.
I noticed that the
skin scraped together
and it sounded like
fingernail files.
It looked like it may have
come from a praying mantis.
Then spoke like it had
horny plates and things
like that it moved
around to make
the dissonances and the
resonances, stuff like that.
It didn't sound like it was
coming through a soft tissue
mouth.
It spoke English.
And some speak and some just
talk to you in your head.
It's like you know
what they're thinking
and they know what
you're thinking.
>> In the 1970s, the
United States Air Force had
an encounter with a craft
piloted by a mantis-like being
that was taken into custody.
According to retired
Air Force Office
of Special Investigations
agent Richard Doty,
classified documents that he was
privy to described this event.
>> The quataloid craft
was flying in Nevada.
This is in the early '70s.
It crashed because it was
shot at by an Air Force jet.
An F-4 jet flying out of Nellis
Air Force base encountered it.
Jet didn't have a
weapons system on.
Another jet was launched
from Nellis Air Force base,
chased this craft.
There was hostile acts presented
against the Air Force aircraft.
And Air Force jet fired
a sidewinder missile.
It struck it, and it crashed.
There were quataloids
in the craft.
And one of them died,
two of them were alive.
When the military personnel
recovered the wreckage,
these two quataloids already had
some kind of environmental suit
on them.
And so they were taken
out of the craft,
they were detained
by military police,
and they were taken to
this containment area.
Of course, we obviously
did a lot of analysis
on the dead one
determining its structure--
entirely different
anatomy-wise, biologically-wise.
They're all different
than any of the Ebens.
But their brain was
enormously more advanced
than anything we'd ever seen.
It had lobes and other
things that we just
couldn't understand.
Everything was connected.
They took apart
the nerve fibers.
We called them nerves.
Everything was
controlled by the brain.
They didn't have a
central nervous system.
backbone, so to speak.
They had a bony structure,
something different than ours.
Their eyes were
extremely more advanced.
They had almost three
sets of eyeballs.
They're the ones that
could feed themselves.
They had little
pouches on their side,
and they produced a
ball of something.
And they could eat it and
keep themselves sustained.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
The craft that was shot down
over Nevada was 100 foot.
It was not exactly saucer-shaped
but pretty close to it.
It was very tall,
probably 30 or 40 feet.
The interior craft was
extremely complicated.
They controlled
everything by their hands.
And there was something
else that they'd
placed over their head, as
if maybe their brain was also
controlling something.
One of the things
that was really unique
about this craft--
this blue fluid circulated all
over the craft, tubular lines.
Tubettes, I think
they called them.
And it all centered in
the bottom of the craft
where the propulsion system was.
So when the propulsion
system was activated,
this bluish fluid
would circulate
all over the interior
walls of the craft.
Now, I don't know that we
determined whether it was maybe
something to do with cooling.
Maybe it assisted them
in stabilizing the craft.
I don't know.
>> In addition to government
encounters with mantis-like
beings and their crafts, there
are people worldwide who claim
to have had direct contact with
the mantis species when taken
aboard their spacecrafts.
One of the most
common revelations
about the mantis
beings is that they
appear to be working closely
with the extraterrestrials
known as the greys.
>> The reports of how people
would have interacted with
the mantis beings comes
through these people onboard
a spacecraft with grey
aliens, short grey aliens,
seeming to do a bulk of the work
where the mantis-type beings
are the superiors, the bosses,
giving instructions and guiding
the whole situation
that's going on.
So of course, the people when
they're in this scenario,
they're a little bit
afraid, a little concerned
for their own safety
and what's going on.
Then when the mantis bring
themselves to the forefront
and they're interacting,
they give a sense of calm.
They convey a sense
of peacefulness,
letting them know
that you're OK.
We're not here to harm you.
This is going to be all right.
And the mantis will
employ the short greys,
to do that kind of
grunt work, to do
some of that base-level
foundation work that leaves
them free and open to use their
minds to connect at a higher
level, do the
higher-level working.
And what we're seeing throughout
the cosmos is that there are
beings that operate on the fifth
or sixth density or even higher
and that they cannot work on
the third density where most
of humanity is.
So they need to work with
an intermediary species
like the short greys
who can communicate
to the fifth- and
sixth-density beings
but yet operate in the
third density where we are.
So that may be one of the
biggest reasons why the mantis
are using the short greys--
because their minds are too high
of a level to directly interact
with what needs to be done.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> The job is a
breeding process,
a genetic engineering
breeding process.
Their ultimate goal is to have a
population of extraterrestrials
that we would call Essassani,
which are half grey and half
human.
So those mantis
beings, their job
is to get that group
of people ready.
Now, that group
of people was not
designed to live someplace else.
They're designed to
blend into human society.
So the control that's
necessary is really oriented
around getting
the people who are
being brought into the ships
through a physical examination.
And then there is a large
component of behavioral stuff.
So once you have the Essassani,
half-grey half-human beings
there, they don't know
how to survive on Earth.
They don't know anything.
>> Mantis beings, I think
they have their own agenda.
I kind of see them
more as neutral beings
where they have a
scientific interest in us.
>> Contactees often report
mantis beings conveying mental
imagery of the destruction
of planet Earth to illustrate
the positive-negative impact
that our species could have
upon the planet.
Others have reported an
increase in psychic abilities
post-contact.
Many experiencers
claim that the mantis
seem to possess the
uncanny ability to put them
at ease, offering telepathic
communication to eliminate
the fear of an encounter.
Understanding the complexity
of these communications
is the challenge to those
having a contact experience.
>> I think possibly they're
there to physically invade
your mind.
And maybe they're
specialists in that.
So I would suggest
that they actually
are there for a purpose.
They're not just there
as an overseer, which
is very hard to
understand because people
can't access that information
or use it productively.
So there's a very
common experience
where you get a download
into your brain,
but then you're not going to
use it for any specific things.
>> They don't see humans.
They see Earth thinking.
And that's the main concept
that we have to change.
They see a whole planet
thinking something,
trying to figure out
who the planet is.
Who am I is asking the planet.
That's why we have
so many cultures,
so many countries
fighting each other.
It's like we are a
schizophrenic teenager right now
for the galaxy, basically,
with too much hormones.
So they are just giving us
space to figure out who we are,
what do we want to
be when we grow up.
So they are just guiding us,
not trying to control us.
>> Based exclusively on the
testimony from contactees,
some researchers posit that a
mantis hybridization program is
currently taking place using
alien DNA to upgrade the human
species.
If this is so, to what end are
these insectoid beings guiding
humanity?
>> What we know about the
agenda of contact with mantis
and humans is a little
bit disconnected.
We don't have, necessarily,
a big strong agreement.
But there does seem to be some
sort of genetic experiment
thing going on.
The only collective
information that we
seem to have from the
eyewitnesses and the people who
have worked with mantis as
to what their mission is
is to help humanity reach
a higher state of being.
But it seems to be at
the cellular level,
the genetic level,
not necessarily so
much at the spiritual level.
The Arcturians would be more
of a spiritual-level type
evolution.
But it seems the
mantis are helping us
at the cellular level.
The mantis might be interacting
with other species who
have had a genetic influence on
humanity through the Galactic
Federation, because
our reports of people
who have worked with
the Galactic Federation
and had direct
interactions with it
have talked about all of
the genetic experiments
that other beings work with.
They get that permission
to work with humanity
and do the work that
they're doing here.
So the interactions of
the mantis, I believe,
will be as a concerted effort
through the Galactic Federation
and working with other
civilizations that
are a part of the Federation.
>> The mantis mentality
regarding humanity--
at this point in time, I
would say one of benevolence.
If it fits their
agenda, which is, so far
as we know, to learn, to
understand, to experience--
unlike their appearance,
a rose always
has thorns, so there may be some
negativity in some instance.
But the majority of the
interaction with mantis
has been one of quiet and peace.
>> So ultimately,
don't fear the mantis.
They might look
a little strange.
They might seem a
little bit weird.
They might be a
little off-putting
the moment that you see them.
But we can embrace
that diversity.
We can embrace that uniqueness.
Because they are ultimately
here for our own benefit,
for our own good.
And if we can be open to the
benevolence that they have
and the kindness
that they have, we
can have a shared
mutual experience that
is just beneficial for all.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> For a civilization
such as ours,
seemingly separated from the
universe without contact with
advanced intelligences
outside of our own,
it's difficult to imagine how
consciousness and life have
evolved.
For the majority
of humankind, it's
difficult to accept that highly
evolved civilizations exist
that have an appearance that
remind us of an insect species
here on Earth.
But whether insectoid
beings had a hand
in guiding humankind
thousands of years ago
or are currently
influencing us genetically
toward a new phase of our
evolution remains to be seen.
Perhaps when humanity is
ready to take that next step
in conscious evolution,
will this illusive race
of insectoids finally
step out of the shadows
and shine more light on
our mutual connection?
Join us next time when we
discuss a rare ET species
from one of the
oldest star systems
in our galaxy, the Felines.
[MUSIC PLAYING]